# hemiwicking prediction for micropillar arrays
Code for journal paper: Prediction of hemiwicking dynamics in micropillar arrays. link: https://pubs.aip.org/aip/pof/article/35/8/082115/2907120
Introduction:
Dynamic hemiwicking behavior is observable in both nature and a wide range of industrial applications ranging from biomedical devices to thermal management. We present a semi-analytical modeling framework (without empirical fitting coefficients) to predict transient capillary-driven hemiwicking behavior of a liquid through a nano/microstructured surface, specifically a micropillar array. In our model framework, the liquid domain is discretized into micropillar unit cells to enable the time marching of the hemiwicking front. A simplified linear pressure drop is assumed along the hemiwicking length such that the local meniscus curvature, contact angle, and effective liquid height are determined at each time step in our transient model. This semi-analytical model is validated with experimental data from our own experiments and from published literature for different fluids. Our model predicts hemiwicking dynamics with <20% error over a broad range of micropillar geometries with height-to-pitch ratio ranging between ≈0.34 and 6.7 and diameter-to-pitch ratio in the range of ≈0.25–0.7 and without any fitting parameters. For lower diameter-to-pitch ratio data points related to sparse micropillar array arrangements, we suggest modifications to the semi-analytical model. This work sheds light on complex and dynamic solid–liquid–vapor interfacial interactions which could serve as a guide for the design of textured surfaces for wicking enhancement in multi-phase thermal and mass transport technologies and applications.
Review the demo experimental results in excel file, and lookup table.mat, which contains information of micropillar geometry, contact angle, effective height correction term, projected interface area at each unit cell. Feel free to reach out to me if you have any questions.
